The experience they said is the best teacher according to adage as the immediate past Managing Director of the Nigerian Inland Waterways Authority said the poor funding has been identified as the bane of the development and functioning of Nigeria Inland Waterways.  As the immediate past Managing Director of the Nigerian Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Boss Mustapha, none can tell better about the federal government agency, where he left to assumed as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF).  He  lamented that if the Inland waterways is not properly funded there is no way Nigeria can boost of  functional waterways transportation.  Mustapha who was one of the discussants on a paper presented by Captain Olugbenga Abidoye, titled “Inland Waterways Operations and Logistics”  during the 2017 World Maritime Day Celebration in Lagos decried lip service to waterways transportation. He said  ” Thank God the minister of transportation is here, in 2017 budget, while Roads were given over N200b, Airports over N85b, but Inland waterways was given N5b, with this poor funding, we will not go anywhere. So there is need for adequate funding for the sector.  The former NIWA boss who received the news of his  appointment as the new SGF also clear the air on the controversial dredging of the river Niger to Baro  by the Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, saying, the river Niger  was  actually dredged.  Accoding to him, ” The waterways needs constants maintainance  dredging, the river Niger to Baro which was actually dredged by the last administration has gone shallow again due to lack of  maintainance dredging . We need to keep dredging the waterways to be navigable”  It could be recalled that, the minister of transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi was quoted few months ago in an event in Lagos accusing the last administration of wasting Over N25b in dredging the river Niger  and now they will only spend a paltry N100m to dredge the same river Niger.  Meanwhile, when the news broke out that Boss Mustapha who was actively participating in the 2017 World Maritime Day Celebration has been appointed the new Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and other top government functionaries left the venue of the event unceremoniously. Mr Mustapha has since resume office as the new SSG to the federal government of Nigeria.