 All Protocols duly observed. We at the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) are delighted to be here with you today as we mark our FIRS Day just as the Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry hosts her 37th International Trade Fair. Being the premier Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, we are aware of all your laudable activities in supporting business, trade and industry in Nigeria through policy advocacy, trade mission and advisory services for your members and various other stakeholders. We are also aware that you have partnered with tax administrations in many ways, helping to spread the mantra of responsible citizenship while challenging the government to be accountable to the peoplein the way and manner tax revenue is being spent.  Nigeria has endured a severe economic downturn over the last two years, but as the country is gradually emerging  from recession, Governments at the Federal and State levels are focusing  energy and scarce resources towards reversing the negative impact of the recession on businesses via targeted tax and fiscal policies and other actions aimed at reinvigorating the business environment. The theme you have chosen for the Lagos International Trade Fair this year, “Promoting industrialization for economic recovery and sustainable growth”is timely and further illustrates the alignment between Government and various stakeholders in the Nigeria Project. In developing this year’s theme, the LCCI would have recognized Lagos as the strategic epicentre around which the growth of the nation’s commerce and industry revolves, thus the focused outreach to  industrialized nations and investors to this Fair which covers key sectors such as mining, real estate, oil and gas, ICT and agriculture with a particular focus on exports. To move from absolute dependence on oil to growth of the non-oil sector, attracting both entrepreneurs and investors to boost growth, jobs and revenue, it is critical to provide the information, resources and supporting structures that will enable successful execution of the national economic recovery and growth plan.  On our part, we are working hard to ensure that the FIRS is in full alignment with all efforts to grow national revenue from taxation while easing the administrative burdens inherent. There are in existence several incentives contained in tax-related laws that can benefit various types of businesses and we have also undertaken the following to lighten the burden of taxationon taxpayers, individuals and corporate    bodies;  It is our earnest belief that these progressive steps will boost the voluntary compliance rate and eventually result in steady growth in revenue available for national advancement.  Further, we acknowledge that the challenges and opportunities revealed by our economic situation require new, creative innovations and to this end, we have adopted engagement, collaboration and the technology as key facets of our approach to seize these opportunities and address such challenges. It is our expectation that the vibrant, vocal Lagos business community will regularly interact with us, share thoughts on how we can ensure that we make taxation the pivot of development at all levels of government. We invite you to visitour stand,which is at Hall 4 at the Trade Fair grounds. The visitation willenable you to obtain information, register your business and get a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), and you will also be able to resolve any doubtful issues you may have regarding taxation. We are here to serve you and lessen the pains of doing business.  Once again, we congratulate the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry on yet another successful outing of your annual Trade Fair and wish you a pleasant and fruitful participation. Thank you for listening and God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  Babatunde Fowler Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service