The management of Nestlé Nigeria plc announces its Maggi Simply Good commitments and the launch of a new seasoning cube MAGGI® NAIJA POT –   another addition to the MAGGI® family. The 4 Simply Good commitments are levers to help achieve the company’s purpose, which is enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future. They are focused on improving the product nutritional profile by reducing salt and increasing micronutrient fortification, growing the economy by sourcing raw materials locally and simplifying the ingredients lists by using locally recognized ingredients. These commitments respond to the preference of today’s consumers for products with more familiar and common ingredients, natural or organic, with minimal processing. Based on this consumer insight and a strong understanding of local cuisine MAGGI® NAIJA POT was developed using familiar and common ingredients to achieve a unique smoky-fishy blend. Naija Pot is made from natural smoked fish, stock fish and crayfish to deliver the ‘bottom-pot’ taste loved across Nigeria.
In his opening remarks at the launch, Mr. Mauricio Alarcon, MD/CEO of Nestlé Nigeria said, “We dedicate ourselves to deeply understanding the needs and preferences of our consumers, and then we tailor our products to suit local tastes and food cultures.” Maggi Naija Pot is a new seasoning cube developed in Nigeria based on the strong understanding of local cuisine. It aims at amplifying the authentic Nigerian essence of food.  Naija Pot is the only seasoning cube in Nigeria full of fish flavour with the unique combination of natural smoked fish, stockfish and crayfish to give soups and pottages that bottom-pot taste that Nigerians love. Moreover Naija Pot will help to save time, money and effort since Naija Pot combines selected locally known ingredients in one small cube. The consumer can now create local authentic dishes in a simpler way thanks to Naija Pot’s smoky-fishy-bottom-pot taste. It is also a source of iodine for higher nutritional value. Also speaking at the launch event, the Category Manager, Culinary, Nestlé Nigeria, Mr. Nordine Meguini said, “MAGGI NAIJA POT which comes in a modern new packaging is the only seasoning cube in Nigeria full of natural fish flavour with the unique combination of natural smoked fish, stockfish and crayfish to give soups and pottages that bottom pot taste that Nigerians love. Naija Pot is a product developed by Nigerian chefs, produced in Nigeria with locally known ingredients to enhance the tastes of local cuisine.” MAGGI continues to be the culinary partner of women in Nigeria for over 50 years and will continue to support home cooking with products made with local ingredients that individuals and families know and love.  – End – About the Simply Good commitments in Nigeria Today, Maggi, one of Nestlé’s iconic brands, announced 4 commitments as one of the levers to achieve the company’s purpose, which is enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future. “Simply Good” summarises the commitments of Maggi to offer individuals and families healthier food choices and services: 1. Commitment to improve the nutritional profile of our products especially work on salt and sodium reduction in addition to the fortification of our product in iron. We will continue to deliver in Nigeria billion of servings of fortified Maggi bouillons in order to help reducing the risk of under nutrition and contribute to address micro nutrient deficiencies. 2. Commitment to create more value for the society and the community by increasing local sourcing. 3. Commitment to raise awareness about healthy lifestyles and healthy cooking: Maggi will continue to promote healthy lifestyles, healthy cooking by reaching millions of women directly. In 2017, through the MAGGI caravan we have reached directly 1.3 million of women across Nigeria to sensitize them about nutrition. 4. Commitment to use more familiar and common ingredients. Our Maggi bouillons are tailored to suit local tastes and food cultures. Today we believe we have the best products because we mainly use ingredients that consumers know and love. MAGGI® NAIJA POT seasoning cube  MAGGI NAIJA POT is in line with the commitment to use more familiar and locally known ingredients. Naija Pot is the only seasoning cube in Nigeria full of fish flavour with the unique combination of natural smoked fish, stockfish and crayfish to give soups and pottages that bottom-pot taste that Nigerians love.  What MAGGI is also offering consumers with this product is saved time, money and effort since Naija Pot combines selected locally known ingredients in one small cube. The consumer can now create local authentic dishes in a simpler way thanks to Naija Pot’s smoky-fishy-bottom-pot taste. MAGGI NAIJA POT is also a source of iodine for higher nutritional value. About Nestlé Nigeria:
Nestlé Nigeria Plc began simple trading operations in Nigeria in 1961 and has today grown into a leading food
manufacturing and marketing company. Nestlé Nigeria is the biggest food company in West Africa. Nestlé
Nigeria employs around 2,400 people and has 3 world class factories.
Nestlé Nigeria manufactures and markets a range of high quality brands including: NESTLE PURE LIFE,
GOLDEN MORN, MILO, KITKAT, MAGGI, NESCAFÉ, NIDO.