 The contractor handling the reconstruction of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, China Civil Engineering and Construction Company, has said that two police stations and part of the Lagos State University’s gate are some of the structures along the road that will give way to the new 10-lane road. It attributed the slow pace of work on the project to the rains and promised to complete the work on schedule. The CCECC gave the hints in Lagos through one of its officials, Mr. Izuchukwu Obioma, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria. He spoke against the backdrop of complaints from residents that the project was being unnecessarily delayed. The contract for the reconstruction of the road was awarded in 2009 by the Lagos State Government and meant to be completed in 2019, with a metro rail line in the median. The CCECC official said that the Lagos State Government was on the verge of striking an agreement with the police authorities on what to do about the two police posts occupying the road’s right of way. He said, “There is one police station opposite the Ojo military cantonment and there is another in Okokomaiko, both occupying the right of way. “The state government officials have been meeting with the police authorities on what to do about these stations, so that they will not create further delay.” Obioma said further that the authorities of the Lagos State University had agreed to remove parts of the school’s fence, which was also occupying the right of way. “On the LASU axis, we have started replacing parts of the fence that would need to be pulled down for occupying the right of way. “The authorities of LASU were very cooperative because they understand the importance of the project and we appreciate them for that,’’ the CCECC official said. A NAN check revealed that different portions of the road were receiving attention. The portions from Orile Iganmu to Agboju, FESTAC Town’s second gate have been fully rehabilitated, while the portion from Alakija to Okokomaiko is presently receiving attention. The report also said some structures close to the LASU fence had been pulled down to pave the way for their relocation. Excavation, piling and construction of drainage were ongoing on portions of the road from LASU to Okokomaiko, it stated. The road expansion is meant to curb perennial traffic congestion on the international highway, serving as a gateway to Lagos from the neighbouring West African countries. Obioma said that although there was a little delay, it was caused by the rainy season. “It is true that the rains posed a challenge but we have had to devise new means to save valuable time and resources. “We had to suspend aspects of the job like some areas where asphalt and excavation are required and some portions where piling work is required,’’ he said. Obioma, however, gave the assurance that the pace of the job would be accelerated after the rains, to make up for lost time.