Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX) today announced that it is making a $1 million contribution to the American Red Cross for the immediate relief efforts under way to assist victims of Hurricane Harvey that struck Texas over the weekend. “Our thoughts are with all the people who have suffered tremendous losses and disruption from this catastrophic hurricane and related flooding,” said Jeff Shellebarger, president, Chevron North America Exploration and Production Company. “As a business with deep ties to Texas and Houston, this donation will assist with the initial critical relief process. We will continue to work with responding organizations to support ongoing recovery efforts, which we hope can begin soon.”  According to email sent to amehnews, the donation will support relief efforts throughout the affected regions, including both Corpus Christi and the greater Houston metropolitan area. In addition, the company will match donations made to the relief efforts by its employees and retirees, many of whom have seen the tragedy unfold first-hand. One of Chevron’s top priorities is protecting its employees, families and communities when they may need assistance in times of emergency.  The American Red Cross is a key partner in delivering that assistance. “The Red Cross is working around the clock in extremely challenging conditions in Texas to help people impacted by Hurricane Harvey,” said Gail McGovern, president and CEO of the American Red Cross. “We couldn’t do it without the generosity of our donors – like Chevron. With their support, the Red Cross can be there when disaster strikes to respond with shelter, food and the necessary supplies to ensure people are cared for, and to help during the recovery process. We’re extremely grateful for their support.”  Houston represents the single-largest concentration of Chevron employees globally, and the company has important business interests throughout Texas, including the Permian Basin and Corpus Christi. A number of Chevron’s businesses are headquartered in Houston, including our exploration and production companies for North America, Africa and Latin America; our technology companies; pipeline, power and global procurement businesses; and the supply and trading function. In addition, many of Chevron’s major capital projects are planned and developed from Houston.  About Chevron Corporation Chevron Corporation is one of the world’s leading integrated energy companies. Through its subsidiaries that conduct business worldwide, the company is involved in virtually every facet of the energy industry. Chevron explores for, produces and transports crude oil and natural gas; refines, markets and distributes transportation fuels and lubricants; manufactures and sells petrochemicals and additives; generates power; and develops and deploys technologies that enhance business value in every aspect of the company’s operations. Chevron is based in San Ramon, Calif.