Management of Ecobank Nigeria has unveiled a “Target Savings Promo”, giving customers the opportunity to win double their savings in the bank within  a specified period. The promo tagged, Double Your Target Savings Promo is intended for customers who want to build up savings with the Bank to meet their future financial goals  or execute specific desired projects. The Target Savings Promo is designed to reward both new and existing customers of the Bank within the six months period the promo is expected to run from August  through January 31, 2018.Left: Country Head, Premier Banking, Ecobank, Rita Etomi Ademola; Group Head, Personal Banking, Ecobank, Korede Demola-Adeniyi; Chairman, Niger-Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba; Special Adviser to Rivers State Deputy Governor on Social Media, Uki Asemota and Zonal Head, Premier Banking, Ecobank, Irene Dabor during the Launch of Ecobank Premier Banking Lounge in Port Harcourt, Rivers State last week.
Announcing the launch of the promo in Lagos, Head, Consumer Banking Ayotunde Kuponiyi, said the promo is in line with the Bank’s policy of rewarding customers who participate by making steady monthly contributions into their Target Savings Account. According to him “the Target Savings product was designed to incentivize and reward new and existing customers who intend to build up savings to meet future financial goals or execute specific desired projects.” He explained that the target project could be saving for school fees, holidays, pilgrimage,  weddings, purchasing personal assets, among others. He reiterated that apart from its very competitive interest rate, the product offers the much needed opportunity for customers to achieve their dreams. Mr. Kuponiyi advised the banking public to take advantage of the promo to open accounts with Ecobank to enjoy the enormous benefits the promo and other services that the pan African bank offers. He also enjoined the existing customers to increase their savings to qualify and win in any of the numerous draws. On the dynamics of the promo and draws, he said customers are expected to save a fixed amount of money from N10, 000 monthly to qualify for entries into monthly draws starting this August, where 30 winners will emerge  every month. According to him the customer is expected to have retained funds in the Target Saving Account for a minimum of 1 month to qualify for the draw. He added that a total of 60 winners will emerge at the grand draw slated for January 2018. In his words “to qualify for the grand draw, customers must have made deposits for at least 3 consecutive months. There will be 60 winners in total, with each of the winners having their total qualifying contributions during the promo period doubled” He further pointed out that participating customers could increase their chances of winning by referring other individuals to save with the Bank. “To be eligible for referrals,’ customers need a minimum of 3 referrals for an additional  entry to win at the grand draw; 6 referrals will give 2 additional entries and so forth. These referrals must also be for the Target Savings Account, where the referred individuals are making steady monthly deposits.”