The Nigerian government has given the assurance that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) would be prioritized and incorporated into the Economic Recovery and Growth plan 2017 -2020. This is to enable the key players in governments at the national and subnational levels, including the leadership of the National Assembly to enhance SDGs sensitive budgeting as well as efficiency of resources. Senior Special Assistant to President on SDGs, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire said this at the opening ceremony of the 8th Annual Ibadan Sustainable Development Summit in Ibadan, Oyo State Capital. Adefulire said Sustainable Development Goals have provided clear guidelines and targets for all countries to adopt in accordance with their priorities, capabilities, level of development and are currently at the centre piece of the new global development agenda. According to her, this SDGs agenda was endorsed by more than 190 Heads of State and government at the 70th United Nations General assembly in New York in September, 2015. The 17 goals and 169 Targets of the SDGs seek to build upon the unfinished business of the MDGs. This goals are integrated and indivisible and are expected to balance the three dimensions of sustainable development viz:social, economic and development. She said SDGs sought to build on the achievements recorded during the implementation of the MDGs in the areas of Universal Primary Enrolment, Gender Parity in Education, Reduction in the spread of HIV/AIDS as well as the prevalence of hunger. “While it is true that appreciable progress was recorded in some areas, critical challenges remain, as we learn from some of the drawbacks of the MDGs. In the drive to improve the implementation of the SDGs and shift the nation towards the attainment of the SDGs by the year 2030, the SDGs office has undertaken a number of activities”. “Recently, the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo inaugurated the private sector Advisory on SDGs. This group will engage and coordinate the Nigerian private sector to partner with government as well as other key stakeholders to implement a roadmap that will ensure public-private alliances provide large-scale solutions towards achieving the SDGs”. Mrs Adefulire said SDGs do not remain a federal initiative alone but in partnership with State and local governments to prioritize specific SDGs in accordance with local priorities. Earlier, the Vice Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Idowu Olayinka said the Ibadan Sustainable Development Summit has continually provided a forum for researchers and practitioners to convene and discuss activities that encourage sustainable development at the national, regional and global levels. Prof. Idowu said the University of Ibadan through the centre for sustainable development, provides an intellectual platform for identifying issues relevant to sustainable development, critically analysing them and finding enduring solutions that will enhance sustainable development. He explained that sustainable development fundamentally involves different stakeholders operating at different scales, from governments, to private corporations. There should be coordination that will address poverty, health, education, water and other issues within the SDGs. The University Don who called for mechanisms to actualize the plan with the incorporation of all parastatals (public and private) and individual noted that SDGs may likely fail unless far more attention is given to addressing challenges crucial to their implementation. The event Titled: Challenges and prospects of Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within planetary Boundaries was organised by University of Ibadan, Centre for Sustainable Development in collaboration with the African Sustainable Development Network and Sustainable Development Solutions Network-Nigeria. Dignitaries at the event includes: Rep. Minister of Information/NTA Zonal Director, Mrs Jenifer Bamisipe, former Governor, Anambra State, Peter Obi, Captain of industries and professors among other. Photo caption 1: right left. professor of education policy, University of Newcastle, prof. James Toomey, Rep. minister of Information & Culture/NTA Zonal Director Jenifer Bamisipe, prof. Popoola Olabode, Rep.VC UniIbadan, Prof. Olanike Adeyemo,former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, Senior Special Assistant to president on SDGs, princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Director Centre for Sustainable development, UniIbadan, Prof.Olanrewaju Olaniran. 