Foremost Nigerian financial institution, Access Bank Plc has rewarded 120 of its loyal customers whilst promoting financial inclusion and encouraging a savings culture in Nigeria. This is in line with the Federal Government’s quest to boost economic growth in the country. Speaking at the Family Fortune promo’s first monthly random selection of winners, Group Head, Inclusive Banking, Ope Wemi-Jones said “the Take today, take tomorrow” promo had attracted a huge number of participants from across the country and our plan is to impact and transform the lives of all our customers”. Amehnews recalled that the Bank recently introduced the family fortune promo tagged “Save Today, Take Tomorrow” to stimulate a savings culture between families without leaving the kids out. “The promo was designed to reward the collective savings habit of families with grand prizes and competitive interest rates while they enjoy the confidentiality of their banking transactions as individuals”. She added. Mrs Wemi-Jones said the chances of a family winning is quite high adding that all the winners from the selection met the promo criteria which include achieving a minimum balance at the qualifying level of N150,000.00.  The fund is required as a cumulative balance across family members accounts with each member having a minimum balance of N20,000 to qualify for the family fortune promo. Fifty customers were given DSTV decoders; another 30 got N50,000 worth of shopping vouchers; 20 customers won Samsung mobile phones each; 10 customers won 42 inch LED televisions and 5 customers won 7-seater home furniture (sofa) each. The nationwide savings promo, first of its kind in the industry with over 100,000 gifts to be given away targets the family units with weekly, monthly and the mega random selections. The mega random selection is scheduled to hold in December, 2017 where three families will go home as proud winners of a house each. Family holidays, 16KVA generators, brand new cars and scholarships are all up for grabs.