The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has engaged the services of the Nigerian affiliate of an international security printing outfit, MSP Secure Technologies Nigeria Ltd. to introduce a product authentication scheme in Nigeria. The scheme is aimed at assisting Consumers determine the genuineness of products before purchase  . Speaking at the signing of the agreement with the company in Abuja, Director General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Aboloma stated that the move motivated to introduce the scheme to ensure consumers get value for their money while also protecting genuine manufacturers and importers from faking, cloning and product counterfeiting. “The Management of SON had since May, 2016 approved the project as part of strategies to combat the negative effects of product cloning, faking, counterfeiting and substandard products in general in the Nigerian Market”. He added that several other initiatives to provide level playing field for local manufacturers and importers in line with requirements of the World Trade Organization (WTO) of which Nigeria is a signatory. Other initiatives, include, the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Program (MANCAP) to assure the quality and competitiveness of all locally manufactured products and the off-shore conformity assessment program (SONCAP) for imported products. Also, an electronic product registration scheme aimed at products traceability and confirmation of quality status is already being implemented by SON, he said. Mr. Aboloma welcomed the agreement with the internationally acclaimed security printing outfit from India, stressing that SON is relying on their over two decades experience in successfully deploying similar schemes in many African countries. In his remarks at the occasion, the Managing Director of Mandras Security Printing Private Limited from India, Mr. Pratap Rajah Sunder Singh expressed his delight at being able to make the parent company’s international experience available to Nigeria. According to him, the successful deployment of similar schemes in the entire East Africa and 3 countries in West Africa has put the company in very good stead to support Nigeria’s fight against the influx and distribution of substandard products in the country. He promised that the introduction of the scheme in Nigeria will come with training and development of local capacity to ensure the sustainability of the project which according to him will protect genuine manufacturers, importers as well as consumers of products in the country.