 Poland investors have been urged to key into the circle of genuine businesses in Nigeria to brighten the relationship between Poland and Nigeria. Nigeria’s Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs. Aisha Abubakar gave the charge when she played host to delegation of Poland investors in her office, in Abuja. While receiving the delegation led by the representative of the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Import Promotion Council (NIPC), Alhaji Abubakar Yerima, Mrs. Abubakar expressed happiness at the visit, as it is expected to solidify the warm relationship that exists between Nigeria and Poland. She encourage them to take advantage of the available opportunities that exists for business investment in Nigeria. “The Government is doing so much to encourage the people who are very creative and innovative, leading to job creation for the jobless, government has improved on the ease of doing business in order to improve on its ranking” She said Earlier, the leader of delegations Senator Piotr Urushi saif their experience since they arrived Nigeria was very positive and encouraging. He stated that the objective of the visit was to sensitise Nigerian businessmen on the forthcoming Polish – Nigeria Business Investment summit. Senator Urushi emphasized that various interest groups in Poland have been sensitized about the summit and are prepared to partner with Nigeria on the outcome. “Many exchange programmes, are being put in place for the benefit of the people of both countries.” He explained On his part, the representative of the Executive Secretary of Nigeria Import Promotion Council, Alhaji Abubakar Yerima stated that arrangement, are on for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Poland businessmen to establish an hospital of international repute in Nigeria noting that invitation has been sent to Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and the Nigeria Chamber of Commerce, Mines, Industries and Agriculture (NACCIMA) to work out modalities of cooperation.