  The management of Unity Bank Plc has lined up gifts splash as it is set to activate a reward bonanza in a campaign tagged Unity Verve for Value promo. The scheme is packaged to reward old and new card holders by offering sets of incentives to deserving active customers who use their Verve debit card on electronic platforms such as ATM, POS and WEB. The star prize is an all- expense paid trip to Ghana which will be won by 4 customers from the 4 geographical zones. The winners will emerge out of highest frequency of transactions and volume. The lucky winners will embark on a 4-day fun filled vacation. A statement from Unity Bank states that 4 runners- up in each of the four zones will be rewarded with 8 (Eight) 5.0 KVA Generators while N100, 000(One hundred thousand) worth of airtime will be given out to customers monthly, between August and November 30, 2017. Taiwo Oluwole, Head, E-Business Group, Unity Bank Plc therefore urges customers to partake and take advantage of this special offer by requesting for Verve Cards and use the card frequently to increase chances of winning. Verve is a Naira denominated card linked to customer’s savings, current or corporate account and used to settle purchases within Nigeria. For multiple account holders of Unity Bank Plc, all accounts can be linked to one card to enable accessibility to funds on any account type.  As a Chip and PIN secured debit Cards, it offers customers with 24-hour access to funds on ATMs, POS, and WEB within Nigeria thereby reducing the risk and the inconvenience of carrying cash.  “By encouraging the repeat and frequent customer usage of verve card on all alternate channels: ATM, POS, Web, Unity Bank is no doubt pushing the frontiers of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) cashless initiative (policy) even as it drives increased adoption of e-payment by customers” Mrs Oluwole said. According to Mrs. Oluwole, the promo dynamics are divided into three major categories:  The monthly reward targets top 100 customers with highest ATM Value added services (such as airtime top up, bills payment & inter/intra bank transfer) POS and WEB transactions within one month. The 100 winners in this category would be rewarded with 1000 airtime each. The second category- called the ‘Runner-up Reward’ would see 8 customers selected based on highest volume of transactions on those alternate channels across the  delineated four zones smiling home with a 5.0 KVA generator each. Unity Bank is poised to empowering our customers by promoting the benefits of convenient payment even as it leverages on this scheme to deepen its retail footprints and drive financial inclusion. With Verve Card, customers can settle prepaid PHCN bills, buy Airtime and transfer funds on a quick teller platform.