The Presidency says the claims in some quarters that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been sidelined; a week after the return of President Muhammadu Buahri from medical vacation abroad is not true. Reacting to a publication on the matter, Senior Special Adviser to the President, Garba Shehu said there is no iota of truth in the claims, made via a section of the media. He said Vice Preident Osinbajo remains the closest person to the President as well as his closest adviser. “To begin with, it is absolutely nonsensical and absurd to write that in one week of the President’s return, the Vice President has been sidelined. Quite to the contrary, the Vice President remains the confidante and the closest adviser to the President. He has attended all the President’s engagements all through the week with the exception of two: one, the VP was away to Taraba State and two, the Juma’at Muslim prayer because he is a Christian,” he said. The Senior Special Adviser said it was worrisome that someone is perpetrating falsehood and what he intends to achieve is of great concern. He said: “Over the past few months, some media organizations have published a stream of allegations against some persons around the President attributing them to “persistent rumours and speculations,” with no other objective but to generate hatred and disgust against these hardworking people. It is difficult to understand what anyone wants to achieve peddling such falsehood that the President, himself a former military general and Head of State and Commander-In-Chief is subject to undue influence and manipulation. It is both ridiculous and inconceivable.” Garba Shehu therefore called on any Journalist that needs clarification on anything not to hesitate to approach the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr Femi Adesina, Senior Special Assistant to the President, Mr Laolu Kande or Garba shehu himself to seek clarification. “Journalists with questions to ask concerning the President and the Villa administration are please welcome approach both the Special Adviser, Femi Adesina, Laolu Akande or myself. Where we don’t have your answers, we are ready to obtain as much as we can, the correct responses to your enquiry,” he said.