The National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) is set to hold its second edition of national conference to discuss burning issues in insurance and pension sectors, while proffering solutions to challenges facing the two industries. The conference, billed to hold on October 25, 2017, at Lagos Oriental Hotels in Lagos, will be a forum for insurance and pension stakeholders to discuss on legislation of the two sectors and its impacts on the people. According to the statement from the Conference Organizing Committee, this year conference have “The 3-in-1 event designed to discuss burning issues bothering on ‘the two industries with two theme’ will also accommodate the launch of the association’s quarterly journal, NAIPCO Trumpet and Awards for deserving insurance and pension firms.” The first themes of the conference:, ‘Legislation of Pensions, Intrigues, Interest, Governance and The People‘ seeks to establish the relationship between lawmaking for the people and the impact of legislation on a common man, while creating understanding of the current pension system as it affects the people. The second theme, being ‘Insurance Legislation: Beyond Lawmaking’ is meant to reinforce the need for insurance legislation to be more of developmental in enforcement of compliance as stakeholders are expected to take positions on the proposed amendment of the Insurance Act 2003 at the event. While the concerns of insurance consumers would be extensively discussed, the conference will also deliberate on the fate of insurance stocks on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and why most of them remain penny stocks. With credible individuals and companies expected to be awarded at the event, NAIPCO Trumpet will equally be launched. The President, NAIPCO, Mrs. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, in her reacting on this development, disclosed saying the motive behind organizing the conference was to find a way of increasing insurance and pension awareness as well as developing the sectors by proffering solutions to challenges faced by the two critical sectors of the economy. NAIPCO Journal, which would also be launched at the event, Tolu-Kusimo added, is a pet project of the association aimed at increasing insurance and pension awareness, adoption and penetration in the country. On the Award, she said, all insurance and pension stakeholders would be subjected to critical examination and screening by looking at their contributions to the respective sectors they operate in, while the outstanding ones would be awarded that day. The NAIPCO President urged stakeholders to support this initiative through moral and financial support to make the programme a huge success as this will go a long way to redesign the landscape of the two industries.