The Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE” or “The Exchange”) is pleased to announce the election of Abimbola Ogunbanjo as the new President of National Council of the Exchange. This decision was reached at The Exchange’s National Council meeting held immediately after its 56th Annual General Meeting on September 25, 2017. L  – R shows Abimbola Ogunbajo, First Vice President, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Aliko Dangote, ex-officio, NSE; Oscar N. Onyema, Chief Executive Officer, NSE; Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, CON, President, NSE and Mojisola Adeola, Council Secretary, NSE at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) today in Lagos. Ogunbanjo took over from Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, CON, who has completed his three-year tenure
as President of Council of the Exchange. However, Aig-Imoukhuede will continue to serve on the National
Council as an ex-officio member pursuant to The Exchange’s Article of Association. Ogunbanjo joined the National Council of The Exchange in 2011 and has been the First Vice President
since 2014. He is the Chairperson of the Demutualization Advisory Committee of the NSE. He currently serves
as the Managing Partner of the renowned leading corporate law firm of Chris Ogunbanjo & Co (Solicitors).  Ogunbanjo serves on the boards of several multinational corporations and non- profit organizations
including Beta Glass PLC and the Advisory Board of the University of Buckingham Centre for Extractive
Studies. He is the former Country Director and Legal Adviser of the oil giant ConocoPhillips and oversaw the
recent divestment of the corporation’s upstream assets in Nigeria He is a member of the International Bar Association, Nigerian Bar Association, Institute of Petroleum and a
registered Capital market consultant with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigeria. Ogunbanjo
acquired his first degree in Business Administration with Honours from the prestigious American College of
Switzerland, Switzerland. He proceeded to the University of Buckingham, Buckingham where he obtained his
law degree. In the same vein,  Abubakar Balarabe Mahmoud SAN, current President of the Nigerian Bar Association
(NBA) and one of the founding partners of the law firm of DIKKO & MAHMOUD was elected as First Vice
President while Mrs Catherine Echeozo (Former Deputy Managing Director of GT Bank) was elected as
Second Vice President.L  – R shows Abimbola Ogunbajo, First Vice President, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Aliko Dangote, ex-officio, NSE; Oscar N. Onyema, Chief Executive Officer, NSE;  Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, President, NSE and Mojisola Adeola, Council Secretary, NSE at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) today in Lagos.  Commenting on the recent development, Aig-Imoukhuede said, “I am delighted that our robust succession planning framework has ensured the emergence of a worthy successor in the person of Abimbola Ogunbanjo. His background as a legal practitioner and successful corporate player combined with  years of meritorious service as a Council member has equipped him with the knowledge and experience required to take the Exchange to higher levels of performance and development”. The Chief Executive Officer of the NSE, Oscar N. Onyema, thanked the outgoing President, AigImoukhuede for his immense contributions, commitment and distinction in service. “Aig-Imoukhuede brought hands-on experience and business expertise to the Council which contributed to the development of the Exchange despite the harsh economic and policy environment that characterized his tenure”. He also said that “The election of  Ogunbanjo brings continuity and ensures that The Exchange will
continue to deliver on its strategic objectives. NSE has already benefitted greatly from his broad experience
and his contributions as the First Vice President of our Council. I look forward to working closely with Mr.
Ogunbanjo in our journey to becoming Africa’s foremost securities exchange”. On his part, the new Council President, Abimbola Ogunbanjo said “I am honoured to be elected President
of the National Council of The Exchange. Taking the reins of leadership of this foremost Exchange is made
easier by the transformational groundwork laid by my predecessor. I would like to thank the outgoing Council
led by Aig-Imoukhuede for their stewardship of the Exchange over the last three years”. “I have worked closely with my predecessor in pursuing our collective vision and building a world class
exchange. Together with the other Council members I now look forward to the successful implementation of
the transformative initiatives articulated in our 2018 – 2021 corporate strategy”. It will be recalled that Chartwell Securities Limited (Represented by Oluwole Adeosun); Equity Capital
Solutions Limited (Represented by Kamarudeen Oladosu); Fortress Capital Limited (Represented by Mr.
Yomi Adeyemi); Pilot Securities Limited (Represented by Seyi Osunkeye); Planet Capital Limited
(Represented by  Chidi Agbapu); Woodland Capital Markets Plc (Represented by  Patrick Ajayi);
Katsina State Investment & Property Development Co. Limited (Represented by Mrs. Famah Bintah Bello–
Ismail); Mrs. Catherine Echeozo; and Erelu Angela Adebayo were elected as Council members during the
AGM. The governance of The Exchange is vested in its Council which directs The Exchange’s business and financial
affairs, strategy, structures and policies; monitors the exercise of any delegated authority; and deals with
challenges and issues relating to corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and corporate ethics.