The Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has deployed the X-Squad to arrest and detain policemen, who extort members of the public before releasing suspects on bail. He  has equally directed all assistant inspectors-general of police and commissioners of police to immediately ensure that ‘bail is free’ stickers are pasted in the crime branch, statement room, charge room and other conspicuous locations in all police divisions,  stations and outposts throughout the country. Speaking at the inauguration of the ‘bail is free’ campaign in Niger State on Wednesday, Idris, who was represented by the Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, stated that the police leadership was concerned about the issue of corruption in the force, especially the extortion of the public by policemen. He said, “The Inspector-General of Police and management team pay special attention to issues of corruption allegations, most especially as it concerns bail of suspects in police custody. “The IG has therefore directed the launch of ‘bail is free’ campaign in all the 36 states of the country and the FCT, starting today (Wednesday) from Niger State Police Command, ‘B’ Division in Minna. “He has deployed an X-Squad to arrest and detain policemen who extort the public in order to release a suspect on bail.” Meanwhile, the National Association of Nigerian Students has condemned the controversy between the IG and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Navy, Senator Isa Mi¬sau, saying the corruption allegations levelled against the former could erode public confidence in the force. The factional NANS President, Haruna Kadiri, said the allegation was an indictment of the police which he described as dangerous and unhealthy for the nation and public security. Addressing journalists in Abuja, the student leader noted that the allegation against the police leadership could impact negatively on the rank and file in the force and demoralise them, a development that would work to the advantage of criminals. Kadiri said, “The senator said it was not an allegation against IGP as a person, but the entire police leadership across all levels. “What this implies is that every former IG raked in N10bn every month during their stay in office; how substantive and realistic is this allegation?”