 The Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) has appointed a new 13-member Executive Council (Exco) to run the affairs of the Body with a view to driving reputation management of the Banking Industry through advocacy that would promote greater engagement with the Banking public.  The new Exco which is led by Charles Aigbe, Divisional Head, Brand & Communications, Fidelity Bank as President has Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, Head/DGM, Corporate Affairs & Corporate Communications Department of Union Bank and, Dayo Aderugbo, Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing Department of Standard Chartered Bank as 1st Vice- President and 2nd Vice-President respectively.  The post of Secretary-General of the Association is held by Rasheed Bolarinwa of Skye Bank and he is being assisted by Sola Ogunyemi of Eco Bank as Assistant Secretary-General. Bukola Oluyadi of First Bank and Lola Egboh of FCMB hold the positions of Treasurer and Financial Secretary of the Association respectively.  Other appointed Executive members of ACAMB include Matthew Obiazikwor of Unity Bank as Publicity Secretary and, Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami of Stanbic-IBTC as Social Secretary.  The Ex-Officio members for the Body are Isaac Okoroafor, Director, Corporate Communication, CBN; Hadi Birchi, Head, Corporate Communication, NDIC; Sunday Ebong, Head, Corporate Communication, CIBN and, Lola Odedina, immediate past president of ACAMB.  Charles Aigbe, the new ACAMB President, brings to bear accumulated experience spanning over two decades in corporate communications, marketing and financial services branding.  An alumnus of the University of Jos, a chartered Stockbroker and a member of the Nigerian Institute of Marketing (NIM), Aigbe was elected into the leadership of ACAMB in 2015 as 1st Vice-President.  The ACAMB President has the onerous task of rejuvenating the vision of the Association and, he will be supported by a vibrant 12-man Exco, leveraging on wide range of expertise with combined industry experience spanning over 100 years.  In his inaugural speech, Aigbe outlined industry stakeholders’ advocacy, value added partnering with relevant industry’s bodies and, enhanced membership capacity building as part of his vision and programmes for ACAMB.  He explained that, more that ever before, ACAMB would be re-positioned to deliver on the mandate of its  founding fathers to protect, project and promote the reputation of banking industry through robust engagement initiatives.  ‘’Banking strives on trust and confidence, there is need for a broad based market confidence building as we progress’’, Aigbe said.  ACAMB was formed in 1996, following the initiative of the Banks’ Chief Executives to foster interaction among Corporate Communication/Public Relations Managers in the Banking Sub-Sector of the Nigeria’s financial sector and to advise the leadership on the reputational implications of policies as well as implement reputation enhancing programmes on behalf of the industry, among other objectives.