Nigeria’s Information and Culture Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has appealed to state governors, philanthropists and other wealthy individuals to invest in the Nigerian creative industry so as to assist the effort of government in job and wealth creation in the country. Alhaji Mohammed made the appeal at the National Theatre in Lagos, South West Nigeria when he witnessed a classy stage play title itan, meaning the story in Yoruba language. In his speech after the performance, Alhaji Mohammed said Nigeria is endowed with abundant talents in the arts and creative industry. “Nigeria has all it takes to run a successful creative industry. What we lack is the wherewithal, the infrastructure and the finances. Once we are able to fix it, our young creative would benefit from the system, because the value of their creativity will be respected and they would make fortunes from it”. The Minister also said that government was working towards making laws that would protect the industry and the players involved. ‘’We are working towards entrenching laws that will protect the industry from piracy and related crimes affecting the industry.’’ Meanwhile, the Director of the play, Mrs. jayesimi Ayodele described the play as a way to bring different generations together. She said it is important for all generations to understand each other and synergise for growth of society and humanity. ‘’Once we are able to bring generations together it would help the society because each generation has something to learn from the other. They are all inter-inked. We feel putting this concept into play would deliver the message better and more clearly.’’ The play attracted big names in the Nigerian creative industry as well as top government officials.
It would be recalled that the Nigerian government has made frantic commitment to develop the creative industry especially with the proposed national endowment for the arts, funds that would be meant for the development of the creative industry which has been amended ready to be taking to the executive arm of government for onward passage to the national assembly.