Definitely not the first of its kind, AirFrance and KLM are known for their distinctive, yet classy soirées. So, it came as little or no surprise when the two European airlines chose to appreciate their customers with a back in time party last week. From afro wigs to flared pants to ‘70s Music to disco lights, AirFrance KLM was definitely in the air that evening.  Omolola  ItayemiI  reports Definitely not the first of its kind, AirFrance and KLM are known for their distinctive, yet classy soirées. So, it came as little or no surprise when the two European airlines chose to appreciate their customers with a back in time party last week. From afro wigs to flared pants to ‘70s Music to disco lights, AirFrance KLM was definitely in the air that evening. OMOLOLA ITAYEMI reports Disco lights, speakers, gargantuan TV screens, Dj spinning old school vibes and the fusion of different ‘70’s fashion in blue and white African print transformed the terrace of Oriental Hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos. It was an amazing night of celebration of exceptional customers. As they sipped on cocktails and champagne, people mingled, old friends reconnected, and recounted the year’s happenings. A big hit at the pre-dinner reception was the exciting photo booth, for photos and videos The event was hosted by IK Osakioduwa with DJ Bobbie on the wheels of steel, as well as a thrilling performance by Bantu and the Afropolitan band. For the fun activities of the night, some of the guests at the party participated in a Soul Train dance competition and each of the winning dancers got a business class ticket, redeemable at any time. There were also other fun activities throughout the night, as well as an endless flow of drinks and a delicious buffet dinner served in a relaxed, beautifully decorated and illuminated ambience. Catching up with the Commercial Director, Nigeria and Ghana, Air France KLM, Arthur Dieffenthaler, in his ‘70’s attire and afro hair was another high point of the night, as he explained the reason for celebrating this business relationship and the impact of the closure of Abuja airport on the airline. “We are looking back at 2016 and celebrating business relationships with our customers is a norm. It has been a challenging year but more than ever, it has been a year we connected with many customers. We are celebrating the past and also looking forward to building tighter relationships. “For Air France/KLM it has been a very exciting year because we changed quite a lot of things. We celebrated together with the premiere of a movie in a plane, which has never happened before. So, we showed to the rest of the world that irrespective of what happened, Nigeria together with Air France and KLM has been able to do remarkable things. I am looking up to 2017 with great confidence and I am sure that we will continue celebrating innovation and new things in Nigeria. Knowing how Nigeria works by now, I know there will be ways Nigerians will find their way back in a positive side of development. So, I am looking forward to a prosperous 2017. “On the Abuja Airport Closure on our operations, it depends on the situation which is at hand. For now, we are following the updates from Nigeria on the time they plan to close the airport. For now, we have the dates but we don’t know what will happen. If the airport is closed, there is nothing we can do about that. We are looking to find ways together with our airport in Paris and Amsterdam to suit the needs of our customers in our best way. That could be via Port-Harcourt or Lagos, but we don’t know what the future or the timing will be. For us, the key point is that we serve our customers in the ways possible. “We are one of the oldest airlines continuously flying into Nigeria. Everyone agreed that the most outspoken decade in terms of outfit was 1970s. I am happy at the number of people that turned out and the beautiful outfits,” Dieffenthaler revealed. While Dieffenthaler regaled me with the reason for the party, Jean-Raoul Tauzin, General Manager Air France – KLM Nigeria and Ghana shed light on new aircrafts and routes expected of the airline. “On 787, KLM received a 787 last year. We received this last December. We will receive the next one in April and the next in May and next in November. So at the end of the year, we will have more aircrafts. Due to the current economic challenges in the country, we can understand that it is difficult, especially with the foreign exchange challenges. Therefore, it is difficult for us to bring in that type of aircraft for the time being. We are supposed to have bigger type of aircraft last year and we did it with KLM with the 777 but with the current situation, we withdrew that type of aircraft because it has to be profitable. We are a company and the business has to be profitable. As soon as we see the start of a change in the current situation, we will be able to reinvest in terms of fleet and for sure the aircraft is one of the latest in the fleet, it will be deployed to the route.” 6IX Restaurant Officially Opens in Victoria Island The official opening of 6IX restaurant took place on January 15, this year. This fine dining restaurant is located in the heart of Victoria Island at number 873 Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue. The event was hosted by Akinola Fafowora and in honour of the restaurant’s official opening, all patrons were welcomed by waiters and waitresses. The event served the purpose of a platform for the restaurant to showcase amazing food, drinks, and services. The event ended at the weekend with a big bang, think dinner party ambiance, coupled with signature 6IX flair. Guests feasted on an exquisite selection of the food menu and stylish drink infusions, while the sensational saxophonist, Yhumie, publicly known as Yomi Sax, added to the exuberant atmosphere. The opening was a well-attended event; various celebrities and societal influencers graced the event with their presence, the likes of: Tuface, his wife Annie Idibia, Basketmouth, Bovi, Olisa, Mai Atafo, Elma Godwin, Shina Peller, Pearl Cardy, Rukky Sanda, Ketchup celebrity stylist Swanky Jerry, Jessica Ulo, Stephanie Coker, Air Boy, Que Peller, and many others. NATOP Strategises for 2017 The Nigeria Association of Tour Operators, NATOP, has set plans in motion for its 2017 Annual General Meeting, AGM, slated for the first quarter of the year in a yet to be determined venue. This p disclosed by the Organiser of Akwaaba and a member of NATOP, Mr. Ikechi Uko on the sidelines of the strategic tourism partnership meeting, aimed at promoting mutual beneficial relationship between NATOP and South African Tourism. According to him, the AGM, which is now a regular feature for NATOP would be a grand event featuring notable speakers and the major players in the tourism industry in the country. Uko stated that when the arrangements for the event were fine-tuned, NATOP would release the details which would include, the time, venue for the AGM and other plans. But it will take place in the first quarter of the year, he said. It is believed that this year’s AGM would live up to expectation as usual in articulation and providing the policy direction for decision makers in tourism in the country.