The Lagos State Government has launched a mobile app to ease interaction and ensure provision of services between government and the citizens. It is a platform where citizens from their respective homes and offices can interact with the government without necessarily paying a visit to government establishments where such services are being provided. The mobile app which is the first of its kind in Nigeria is known as ‘Citizens Gate’, an initiative under the Citizens Relations Management (CRM). It is a platform that would avail residents of the State the opportunity to make enquiry and raise suggestions on government services with swift responses. Addressing a joint press briefing at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre in Alausa, the State’s Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mr. Olufemi Odubiyi, said “the launch of the web platform was another initiative of the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led administration aimed at bringing government closer to the people.” Odubiyi who addressed the briefing alongside the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Steve Ayorinde and the Director General of Lagos State Office of Transformation, Creativity and Innovation, Mr. Toba Otusanya, described the Citizens Gate as an technological innovation designed to manage relationship between the citizens and government. He said “The Citizens Gate is an integrated web and mobile-based platform through which Lagos State’s citizens can lodge feedback to the State Government on various services provided, receive quick responses on services as well as interact with government officials via web and mobile phone. “The platform is designed to promote communication and connectivity between citizens and government while it will also enable citizens to inform the government on problems and issues occurring in their areas, communities and beyond.” The Commissioner explained that the platform would also afford citizens the opportunity to enquire about government services while also providing an avenue to make suggestions on government services for better confidence and trust in the present administration led by Governor Ambode. According to Odubiyi, the platform can be accessed via citizensgate.lagosstate.gov.ng and a downloadable mobile app from Google play store and Apple store both on Android and iOS, while the platform would enable government to acknowledge problems and issues which would be investigated, worked on and resolved efficiently and timely. He maintained that apart from the fact that the development would improve the State budget thus making planning a lot easier and preventing waste and encouraging savings. He added that the platform would on the other hand help government to determine which programme of the State is working and whether to replace or improve on any programme for efficient and effective service delivery to the people. The interactive platform according to the Commissioner was initially designed to accommodate 22 MDAs of government and same will be scaled up to cover all MDAs in the near future. He said government officials have been trained to be in charge of the platform in all the initial MDAs, while citizens with no access to internet can call the Command Centre on 767 to air their views on any issue concerning the state.