Financial experts and other stakeholders in the nation’s capital market will gather on Saturday, December 9, at Orchid Hotels, Ajah, Lagos to discuss how to make the market contribute more to the growth of the economy. The forum is the annual workshop of   Capital Market Correspondents Association of Nigeria (CAMCAN) that is organised every year as part of the association’s efforts to contribute to the development of the market and economy. The theme of the programme is: “Deepening the Nation’s Capital Market for Economic Growth.”  A highly experienced investment banker and President of Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria and Founder/Managing Director, Dunn Loren Merrifield Group, Mr. Sonie Ayere is the guest speaker. The Managing Director/CEO FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange, Mr. Bola Onadele.Koko will bring the perspective of how the potential in the debt capital market can be unlocked to grow the economy at the workshop. Similarly, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS), Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri will, among other things, highlight how the clearing house infrastructure can further enhanced capital formation for the economy growth. The workshop will be declared open by the Acting Director General of the  Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),Dr. Abdul Zubair,  who will be special guest of honour, while    Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Oscar Onyema, will the guest of  honour, will give more details how the exchange is  postioning itself as the  Africa’s investment window. Other dignitaries expected at the forum are: Chairman of Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Patrick Ezeagu and President of Chartered Institutes of Stockbroker (CIS), Mr. Oluwaseyi. The workshop which is CAMCAN’s way of contributing to the economic development is being supported by SEC, NSE, FMDQ OTC, Med-View Airline, CSCS, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Zenith Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc, Dangote Group, Nigerian Breweries Plc, FCMB Group and Ecobank. Ayere as the guest speaker is expected to bring his over 20 years of professional experience in corporate finance and structured finance, corporate banking and asset management to bear. Before founding Dunn Loren Merrifield in 2009, he had worked at the International Finance Corporation (IFC, a subsidiary of the World Bank) and whilst there, worked on the development of the Nigerian bond market. He also worked with HSBC Bank, NatWest Bank, The Sumitomo Mitsui Bank, BMO-Nesbitt Burns (the investment banking arm of the Bank of Montreal) where he was part of the senior team responsible for setting up a US$20 billion Fixed Income Structured Investment Vehicle. Sonnie Ayere holds an MA (Hons.) in financial economics from the University of Dundee, Scotland from where he graduated in June 1993. He is also an alumnus of the Cass Business School London where he obtained an MBA in 1996. That same year, Ayere successfully concluded the Executive Corporate Finance Programme at the London Business School. Sonnie Ayere holds an Honorary Doctorate Degree conferred on him by the European American University in 2009