 The acting Director-General of ICRC, Engr Chidi Kingsley Izuwah In reacting to question of “Are you in support of the extension of port concession that was recently granted to some concessionaires”? By The Shipper, it was disclosed that the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) are doing an in-depth study on the best mechanism for the review of 11 years old port concession. The acting Director-General of ICRC, Engr Chidi Kingsley Izuwah, in an interview featuring in the latest publication of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) entitled: “The Shipper’ excerpts. In the latest publication in circulation in Lagos, Izuwah disclosed many things ranging from Private Public Partner through to Concession saying that there might be cases where some concessionaires might not have fully recouped their investments. Focusing on Ports concession, he said “the review will not be based on emotions or man knows man. “It will be based on pure data because anything that needs to be done under the ICRC will be approved by the Federal Executive Council. “So, whatever the outcome of the review process, every Nigerian will know,’’ the director-general said. He disclosed that the commission had developed a disclosure framework. Izuwah explain that “It is a portal where the key information of every concession contract in the country will be disclosed to the public adding that we are hoping to go live at the end of August this year.’’ The director-general said that every Nigerian would become an enforcer of concession and government agencies could be indirectly challenged “if they are not living up to their responsibilities’’. “We are doing everything so that Nigerians can be aware and informed that things are being done in a transparent manner. “The port concession is doing very well. We might complain about the inadequacies, but let us look at what the ports were about 20 years ago in terms of demurrage. “Let us keep telling people that nobody hears about wharf rats any more. “Wharf rats have been eliminated completely, because of port concession,’’ Izuwah said. Amehnews recall that about 26 terminals in Nigerian ports were concessioned to private operators in 2006 which is 11 years ago. On Shippers’ Council project on Truck Transit Parks, he said that there would be a bankable study to be done to establish the optimal location to position the parks. “We (Commission) see the shipper’s council as a very professional run organization that protects the interest of the port operators and plays a very role in the transportation industry. We will continue to partner with them as a regulator to ensure that they will deliver on their mandate” The ICRC Boss also disclosed that the Federal Government was also aware that Inland Dry ports (IDPs) need connectivity with the rail and mega ports as very key and that is why the IDPs are included in Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. The fastest way to increase such capacity in any country is to build Dry Ports, he added.       . “Look at what the Federal Government is doing about the Wharf – Apapa Road. “The implementation may not be going as fast as it can because of funding, that is why we are working on the side to bring the private sector to help us. “So, government is working day and night to create a better Nigeria for everybody,’’ Izuwah said. “The IDPs will become growth polls because people will build industries around them for purpose of transport goods and services.”