 BY EDET OKPO In all fairness and sense of patriotism, it can be said that one of the most committed, pragmatic and effective Committees in the House of Representatives is the House Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration, ably headed by Hon. Mohammed Bago. This is especially in connection with the Committee’s genuine commitments in matters having to do with recurrent interests and the growth and development of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Akwa Ibom State, which directly falls within its oversight function domains. For one thing, the conscious concerns perceptible in the periodic inspection visits to the Academy by the Committee are indicative of its genuine determination to sustain the vision and core mandate of the premier maritime training institution in the country, towards repositioning it as an active player in the competitive international space. However, revelations at the last inspection visit to the Academy by the Committee, which took place precisely on Wednesday 13th December, 2017 left room for some observations, arguments and independent and complementary elucidations. That is with specific attention to the legality or illegality of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) set up by the Federal Government to join hands with the new Rector, Comdr. Duja Effedua (Rtd) who is also a Member of the IMC, to develop modalities for the restructuring and repositioning of the Academy. As part of his remarks on the last inspection visit, Hon. Bago had with unilateral authority and semblance of infallibility informed the audience that the Interim Management Committee is illegal. To quote him with the conciseness, “There is nothing like Interim Management Committee as far as management of the Academy is concerned. It is illegal. It is not constitutional. The Rector has the capacity to drive the Academy”. If not for the overriding air of authority and justifications with which the Committee Chairman made his points, there was that temptation to dismiss Hon. Bago’s lopsided logic and see his position as largely opinionated and hypothetical. But in the interest of the gullible and poorly informed, there is the indispensable necessity for further explanations and enlightenment on the matter. Even a village boy knows that there is separation of powers between the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. Why should Mohammed Bago in a hurry to run the affairs of the Academy, when there is a duly appointed Rector and Interim Management Committee to restructure a place that nearly lost out of its core mandate and global competitiveness. The story of Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, to say the least, is an interesting one; one that has since become a cocktail. This is because of how the many experiments for its development and sustenance have been cobbled over the years, calling for repeated calls for its restructuring, repositioning and holistic overhauling. On the whole, it is a recycled narrative on the endemic critical challenges facing the 40-year-old frontline maritime institution in the country. Therefore, on assumption of office as Minister of Transportation, having known, read about the dilemma of the Academy and been fully briefed and now having it within his statutory portfolio of responsibility, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi in his characteristic forthrightness was pro-active about finding a workable formula for sustainable solutions to issues in the Academy. Thus, at one of the solution-finding deliberations, Mr. Amaechi was quoted to have said: “The situation in MAN, Oron will need a technical committee, or a consultancy firm to evaluate what the situation is on ground, agree on what to do with money coming from NIMASA and affiliate agencies, and agree on what to do about the institution. We need to carry out a surgery of that institution. We don’t need God in this one. God has given the enablement; so what is left is to go and do the work”. The Minister, in subordinate collaboration with the Federal Government, then began consultations with relevant individuals, intuitions and international agencies. The ultimate outcome must have informed the constitution of the initial 7- man Ministerial Committee made up of tested technocrats and highly professional maritime experts, headed by High Chief Adebayo Sarumi. The Committee’s mandate was to critically assess the situation in the Academy and report back to the Federal Government. The Committee which started its work on Wednesday, 25th January, 2017 with a facility tour of MAN and interface with stakeholders was given one month to submit its report. The Ministerial Committee subsequently submitted its report to the Minister of Transportation who in turn forwarded same to the Presidency. Consequently, having gotten approval from the federal government, members of the Ministerial Committee were asked to maintain the status quo and were automatically inaugurated into the incumbent Interim Management Committee on Wednesday, 6th September, 2017 by the Honourable Minister of Transportation on behalf of the President. The following facts therefore must be made clear: First and foremost, the Interim Management Committee, as the nomenclature appositely suggests, is a tentative or stop-gap mechanism with a life span of 6 months that will expire in February, 2017. The mandate given the Committee was definite: to set up modalities towards restructuring and repositioning the Academy. What then would make the Committee illegal? Just as the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Assembly has the right to set up Committees and sub-committees, does the Minister of Transportation not have such domiciliary rights? Of course, within the short time of its stay, the Interim Management Committee has recorded great strides that point to a greater future and justify its neccesity. The syllabus has been reviewed, courses and departments and staff schedule restructured to drive productivity and effectiveness, and there is a general feeling of improved discipline culture and orientation amongst Cadets and staff expected of a regimented institution. Of note too are the robust discussions with appropriate national and multinational agencies on how best to improve Cadets’ training. Such organizations include NLNG, Master Mariners and IMO. All the Interim Management Committee needs now is support and cooperation to deliver on its mandate, not criticism so far as their days are numbered. Additionally, for the fact that Comdr. Duja Emmanuel Effedua (Rtd.) was appointed on account of his unblemished and diligent record of dedicated public service, backed up with his pro-marine military background, there can be no doubts that he is a round peg is in a round hole. The frank words of appreciation and commendation on the Rector by the House Committee on its last visit to the Academy also means a vote of confidence on the Interim Management Committee that has been working hand-in-hand with the Rector. This means better times await Maritime Academy of Nigeria Oron as it launches into the global stage. The driving interest of this piece is to guide the public.