Traffic wardens in Nigeria Guaranty Trust Bank has rewarded traffic warden across Nigerian for their dedication and selfless service. From Enugu to Ekiti States, Lagos to the Federal Capital Territory, Traffic Wardens across the country are being surprised at their duty posts with Orange Sacks of gifts provided and delivered by foremost financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc. The gifts, which include items for the festive season and beyond, were provided by the Bank as part of its #NominateAChamp Campaign. The #NominateAChamp Campaign was created by GTBank to celebrate the selfless service of ordinary Nigerians who go beyond the call of duty to keep our roads safe and hassle-free. As part of the NominateAChamp campaigned, the bank called on members of the general public to nominate Traffic Wardens who have touched their hearts this year with their selfless service. The bank received dozens of nominations from the general public, and accompanying some of these nominations were heartfelt messages of gratitude for the selfless service of the Traffic Wardens. “He is very faithful and kind to road users,” said Godwin, who nominated a warden, by name Eze Peter, stationed at Abakpa, Enugu State. “Even when it’s raining, he’s always there; lways dancing and smiling,” said Julius of the warden he nominated who is stationed at Banex, Abuja, F.C.T. “She’s always on top of her game,” said Opeoluwa Adebiyi about Mrs Oyinlola, the Traffic Warden stationed at Awe Bustop, Mushin Road, Lagos. The Bank is now in the process of delivering the Orange Sack of gifts to the dozens of nominated Traffic Wardens across the country. Advertisement Commenting on the campaign, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Segun Agbaje, said; “#NominateAChamp is, for us, about celebrating excellence, commitment, selfless service, which are standards that we hold ourselves to in everything we do. This campaign is part of our efforts to celebrate those who often surrender their personal comfort to serve us and also to live out the spirit of the season, which is all about thanksgiving. He further stated that, “At GTBank, our social campaigns revolve around the values and interests that our customers deeply care about. That is why we, together with our customers, organized this campaign to recognize and reward excellence and selflessness in service.” Advertisement Guaranty Trust Bank Plc is regarded by industry watchers as one of the best run financial institutions in Nigeria and across its subsidiaries in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, Cote D’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone and the United Kingdom. Renowned for its bias for world class corporate governance standards, excellent service quality and innovation, GTBank is also a role model for Corporate Social Responsibility due to the active role it plays in the socioeconomic development of the communities in which it operates.