The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, has stated that President Muhammadu Buhari’s health status is not as terrible as speculated. Adesina made this known on Wednesday in Channels Television. Asked when exactly Buhari would return to Nigeria, Adesina said, “He communicated the National Assembly and that letter of communication is in the public domain. “He said ‘I will be away till my doctors rule out certain things.’” Recall that on Tuesday, the President through his media aide, Adesina revealed that series of medical check-ups he carried out in the cause of his medical vacation had necessitated his prolonged stay in London. Adesina, however, maintained that the Tuesday’s statement that Buhari needed more time to rest was misinterpreted by the media. According to him, “statement was in past tense.” Asked again to disclose when the president would come back, the president’s media aide said, “Well, we do not know when he will be back, but when he is coming, he will communicate. “President Buhari is an honest man who does not want anything to be coloured on his behalf. “It is a matter of my personal decision and style (that I don’t talk directly to the president). “All those I spoke with, his personal physician, his CD (chief detail), his domestic aide, I can tell them to take the phone to Mr President that I want to speak to him. “I know Mr President, he will speak with me. “But I’ve decided not to talk to him because I do not need that telephone conversation to authenticate the health of Mr. President. “There is enough authentication, there is one from the acting president, there is one from the Senate president and there is from the speaker of the House of Representatives and many others. “So, I do not need to authenticate the status of the health of Mr. President by speaking to him.” Asked to explain Buhari’s current health status, Adesina responded, “The current health status of the president is that it is not as terrible as people make it to seem. “In his own communication, he (the president) says no cause for worry,” Adesina added.