 As the Nigerian government seeks to increase its non oil revenue, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has launched a nationwide campaign to enlighten and educate the public on the need to pay tax. The campaign tag tax thursday sensitization program is aim at implementing the the voluntary assets and income declaration scheme (VAIDS) launch by the present administration and increase the level of payment in nigeria The campaign team visited market places, departmental shops and super market as well as shopping malls to educate traders and members of the public on payment of tax and its accrued benefits. Unveiling the campaign in abuja, the executive chairman FIRS Mr. Babatunde Fowler said the need to increase government revenue cannot be over emphazised adding that the campaign would continue every thursday to raise tax awareness and result in massive enrollment of new tax payers. Tax Thursday’ would continue every Thursday for the next one year, as part of efforts by the federal government to raise the consciousness of Nigerians on tax as a major source of revenue for the country.“The only way we can make Nigeria sweet is to start paying our taxes,” Mr.fowler said the aim is to encourage nigerians to pay tax as it is being done in other part of the world. “We have come out with the VAIDs programme, which gives everybody the opportunity to come out and declare their income and pay their contributions to ensure that Nigeria becomes a better place for all.
 “I’m sure if we all contribute, Nigeria of our dreams will emerge. It will become a prosperous and conducive country to live in. Let’s join hands together to realize this dream by paying taxes,” Mr. Fowler said. With the misconception of Nigerians on paying tax, chairman association of Nigerian traders, fct, edozie ogwu said the government a need to collaborate with traders for an effective tax inclusion
”We want to appeal to them to them to collaborate with us in some areas, we are ready to pay our taxes because without taxes, we cannot make the country work. We thank you for giving us the opportunity to regularize our taxes,” Mr. Ugwu said in its quest to achieve a broader tax base, the Nigeria Governments VAIDS programme offers a grace period from july 1, 2017 to march 31, 2018, for tax evaders to voluntarily pay back to government what they owe. In exchange for full and honest declaration, the government promises to waive penalties that should have been levied and also waive the interest that should have been paid on overdue tax. Nigeria’s tax compliance rate currently stands at 6%, whilst most developed nations records between 30-32%.