A renewed attack between farmers and herders  in Kajuru Local Government Area in Southern Kaduna, have claimed many lives while scores were said to have sustained varying degrees of injuries. The renewed crisis was said to have erupted on Sunday when some Fulani youths reportedly went to a village at Ugwan Uka to avenge the killing of their kinsman. The umbrella body of Fulani, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, on Saturday had alleged that four of its members were killed by youths from Kadara and Gwari communities in Kajuru Local Government Area of the southern part of the state. The National Secretary of the association, Ibrahim Abdullahi, while addressing a press conference in Kaduna, claimed the incident occurred when some kidnappers raided the communities and took away the villagers. But on Tuesday, one of the Kadara youths, who craved anonymity, claimed that the Fulani man that was killed was a known bandit who had been harassing the people of the area and was killed by a mob while trying to escape. It was gathered that the Fulani youths killed five youths who they claimed were responsible for the killing of the alleged bandit. However, the action was said to have provoked the Kadara youths who mobilised themselves on Monday and attacked Fulani settlements, burnt houses  and other properties and killed no less than 12 persons. Salisu Mohammed, an eyewitness said on Monday that after the attack, some security agents were deployed  in the communities and  calm was restored for the period they were around. Mohammed, however, said things got out of hand as soon as they (security agents) left  as the Kadara youths launched another attack on the surrounding Fulani settlements and killed no fewer than 10 persons. “These are the ones whose bodies have been recovered as I’m talking with you, we don’t know the actual number of casualties as our people are scattered all over running for dear lives,” he said. According  to him, the victims were buried in a mass grave, adding that during the burial they received information that nine other bodies had been recovered from  the  surrounding bushes. Another villager said that no less than 10 persons including a seven-month old baby reportedly died in the attack. Confirming the incident, the acting Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Yakubu Sabo, said he was aware of the clash but did not know the casualty figure. He added, “Not only the police but the joint patrol comprising the police and army are still there and situation has been brought under control. I spoke with them this afternoon and they confirmed to me they’re still there, there is no way this type of thing will happen and we will just withdraw like that.” He did not give details on the casualty figures, promising that once the casualty rate was confirmed, “I will let you know but for now we don’t know.