The management of Keystone bank plc has joins other money deposit banks to  launched an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) *533# code service that enable its customer transfer fund without requiring data services on their phone.According to the management, built on the USSD interface, Keystone bank’s *533# banking works on any type of mobile phone and does not require internet access. The Acting Managing Director/ CEO, Keystone Bank Limited,  Hafiz Bakare at the launching in Lagos today, said the *533# demonstrates the bank culture of service excellence with existing customers while reinforcing the Keystone brands as one to be associated with by the entire banking public. In his word, “we have worked assiduously on the electronic support platform over the last couple of months and subsequently secured relevant regulatory approvals for our own USSD. “As we launch this product, we stand to be counted in the industry to ensure our customers continue to have confidence in the bank and have every reason to improve patronage as we offer them convenient service comparable to, and even better than what is offered by competitors. “The *533# product is Keystone bank’s solution to facilitate customers’ access to their accounts at any time of the day. Our *533# makes it possible for a Keystone Bank account to be viewed and transacted upon using any type of functional phone.Bakare explained that the USSD code allows the subscriber to check balances real time; airtime top-up for self and third parties; fund transfer for self and third at any Nigerian bank account. Elaborating further, he said, “It is easy, fast and reliable. The next phase if implementation, which is currently being worked on is to enable account opening and transaction verification services on the *533# platform. We are making bold and significant steps to provide convenient and reliable services to our customers across the globe. “The *533# short code is a step in the right direction to indicate the bank’s positive trajectory, consistent with our promise that the successful completion of the divestment will significantly enhance the bank’s capacity in all respects to serve customers better.” The acting managing director said the financial institution products have been revised to align with current market trends, stressing that the bank will continue to strive for service excellence.