Nigerian energy conglomerate, Aiteo Group, has appointed Ratko Knezevic to its Global Executive Management team as Group Advisor on Business and Capital Development with effect from 5 May 2017. A statement from the company on Tuesday said Mr. Knezevic will lead Aiteo’s funds raising activities from global capital markets with the primary objective of reinforcing the Group’s growth and diversification targets in Nigeria and across Africa as a whole. The new appointee brings to this role vast experience and expertise acquired through proven track record of direct operational leadership, strategy development, team building, financial and relationship management, the company said. He served as Vice Chairman of Macquarie Capital EMEA and senior advisory roles with some of the biggest blue-chip companies in the world. Mr. Knezevic also served as Special Advisor for Economic and Foreign affairs to Prime Minister of Montenegro from 1994-1997 during which time he also served as Chief of the Montenegrin Mission to the United States of America. On the appointment, Benedict Peters, Vice President and CEO of the Aiteo Global Group, said, “This appointment is a testament to Aiteo’s commitment to stable, experienced leadership and I believe with Ratko Knezevic’s exemplary guidance and advice, based on his vast experience in the UK, US, Europe and China in capital markets, we will continue to grow in the kind of significant proportions that we have come to be known. “Mr Knezevic’s unrivalled network within global capital markets offers an excellent opportunity for investment in Nigeria and Africa through the Aiteo Group,” he added. Aiteo Group, an integrated Nigerian energy conglomerate, was founded in February 2008 by Benedict Peters. The company has significant business interests in oil and gas exploration and production; bulk petroleum storage; refining of petroleum products; trading, marketing and supply as well as power generation and distribution. Its subsidiaries are Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company Limited (AEEPCo) and Aiteo Power. Aiteo Group acquired OML 29 from Royal Dutch Shell and is one of Nigeria’s leading oil and gas companies.