SIFAX Group delegation headed Dr. Fola Rogers-Saliu, Executive Director, Human Resources and Admin was present at the special monthly breakfast meeting organized by the Nigerian-South African Chamber of Commerce to commemorate the organization’s 25th year anniversary. L-R: Dr. Fola Rogers-Saliu, Executive Director, Human Resources and Administration, SIFAX Group; Mr. Kehinde Sunmonu, Special Duty Manager, SIFAX Group; Dr. (Mrs.) Oby Ezekwesili, former Minister of Education and former Vice President of the World Bank (Africa region); Dr. Phil Ofulue, former Executive Director, Human Resources and Admin, SIFAX Group and Mrs. Yetunde Okunade, Manager, Business Development, SIFAX Group at the Nigeria-South Africa Chamber of Commerce special monthly breakfast meeting held at Eko Hotels, Lagos, recently. ABOUT SIFAX GROUP: The company, which began operations as SIFAX Nigeria Limited in 1988, started as a freight forwarding agency in Lagos, Nigeria. Services rendered at its inception included freight forwarding, haulage and warehousing operations, as well as adjunct import and export support services. SIFAX Off dock Nigeria Limited was established in 2004 to efficiently operate off-dock facilities and services of the Group. With the terminal located within two minutes drive from both the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports, SIFAX Offdock is strategically located and accessible to the major ports from where it easily receives cargo as a temporary hold and provides easy exit for custom-cleared cargoes to any part of the country. In 2006, the company which had become a group of companies then, through one of its subsidiaries, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, won the competitive bid to manage the Terminal C, Tin Can Island Ports, Lagos under the Federal Government’s port concessioning programme, which handed over the management of port operations across the country to private investors. The ports were hitherto managed by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). In December 2009, SIFAX Group also acquired the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL), an aviation ground and passenger handling company. SIFAX Oil & Gas Company Limited was incorporated in 2010 and commenced business same year. It participated in the government regulated international trading of petroleum products in 2010 and 2011. The company has also acquired a licence to build a 120,000 bpd capacity Greenfield refinery in Nigeria. Sifax Logistics & Marine Services Limited was incorporated in 2013 to provide logistics and marine services for Nigeria and the West Africa sub-region. It provides special transportation with respect to offshore support services, marine vessel transportation, towage and other related marine services to both onshore and offshore oil terminals. Sifax Group, which has now become a big conglomerate, with diverse investments in Maritime, Aviation, Haulage, Logistics, Oil & Gas and Hospitality, among others, now operates globally with presence in the United States, United Kingdom, Ghana, South Africa, Holland, Belgium, Morocco, Spain and Djibouti  