 Mrs Folashade Onanuga, Lagos State Pension Commission Director General DG urges all Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and life insurers to work together to build a virile pension industry rather than fighting each other in a bid to retain market dominance. Onanuga was speaking at the 2nd National Conference on Insurance and Pension, organised by the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO). She said “The competition between the two operators must be healthy, otherwise, the ultimate consumer will lose confidence in the transparency the PRA advocated, as human thinking will suggest that the infighting to gain upper market share, between the two operators means that the product being sold is more to the benefit of the operators than the ultimate consumer. The ultimate consumer will therefore be wary of both products.” Onanuga further explained that PFAs need to understand that they don’t have a monopoly over the business, but should rather work with annuity service providers to boost the pension industry. DG advised that the National Pension Commission (PenCom) and the PFAs should be able to display the list of annuity service providers on their website while annuity service providers should also be able to display similar list on their website. On De-marketing and sharp Practices She said “Marketers of both industries need to be sanctioned where they have been accused of de-marketing, whilst sharp practice by any employee aimed at boosting market share should be exposed and appropriate punishment meted out”. Onanuga urged PenCom to organise consultative meetings with the operators under the umbrella of Pension Operators Association of Nigerian (PenOP) as they are pension operators while maintaining their membership of the insurance industry as they also offer other services that do not affect the insurance industry. In the same vein, High Chief Dele Fajemirokun, a former Chairman of AIICO Insurance Plc also used the occasion to solicits both regulators of insurance and pension sectors to tone down on the guidelines meant to supervise the sectors. Fajemirokun said for insurance and pension industries to move forward, there was need for bureaucracy to be eliminated and reduction in rules, which favours opportunities to generate funds.  His words: “There is need to avoid complexity in regulation with a focus on judgement-led regulation instead of rules-based regulation. Regulators should seek to attract the best talents exemplified by the Bank of England and United State FED, where they recruit the best talents from industry and academia; in some cases, a foreigner such as the Bank of England governor.” “The regulated firms in insurance and pensions say they do not object in principle to being regulated, but there are frequent and vociferous complaints from them, and indeed from the public, about how regulation is being applied in practice, either it is too strict or not strict enough depending on their perspective.” He said “There should be a government actuary’s department that will support effective decision-making and robust reporting, providing the necessary advice to government on policies to assist both industries.  “This is a call to the policymakers to recognise that growing old makes one an endangered species in this country and therefore laws should be passed to protect the aged. Fajemiroun advised that the insurance and pension industries needed to keep investing in capacity building initiatives especially in support of actuary students, adding that both industries, together, must accept the burden of responsibility for drawing attention to care for the elderly in our midst.