  The Managing Director of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Engr. Ernest Mupwaya has said as part of efforts to bridge the metering gap in his franchise area, his firm now goes at the speed of N10, 000 monthly in metering its Customers.  “In our effort to meter all our customers, we now have the plan of metering 7, 000 to 10, 000 customers every month,” Mupwaya has said.  He also confessed that N6.5 billion has been spent on improving infrastructures in its coverage area.  Engr. Mupwaya who said this at the weekend at the energy correspondents’ workshop organised by AEDC in Abuja at the Weekend said the firm has also reduced its Aggregate Technical Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) losses to 48 per cent while ranking first on energy payments to the Generation Companies (GenCos) for over one year.  This is coming three days to the fourth anniversary of the power sector privatisation in Nigeria, with private investors taking over operation of 11 Distribution Companies (DisCos) and several GenCos on November 1, 2013.  He said the breakdown of the N6.5bn spent include N900 million for the replacement of over 374 faulty transformers, procurement of 145 vehicles to ease logistic issues and bush clearing of over 11,400 kilometre power lines to check avoidable power outages in its franchise area.  At present, the Abuja DisCo’s network spanning the states of Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger have been upgraded to 870 megawatts (mw) capacity which the management said is higher than the 650mw highest electricity is has ever received from the national grid.  “We have maintained 8,138 distribution substation transformers since 2016 out of the 12,000 units we have. We are maintaining about 60 to 90 every day and we have a target to reach the 12,000 by the end of this year when we will start a fresh cycle again,” Mupwaya explained.  The AEDC boss noted that although its electricity customers may not see any impact yet but when the second cycle of maintenance is reached, there is bound to be visible and stable electricity supply across places.  The DisCo said to ease liquidity constraint in the power sector, it has invested hugely in enhancing its revenue collection system with the new U-Vision worth $345,556 which will help customers to trace history of their payments.  He said a newer platform worth N400m will begin operation this week and is expected to enhance the monitoring of its field staff to check their energy bill delivery to customers, debtors’ disconnection and other services.  In his words, “It will raise our revenue collection and will help to improve power supply to our customers because we will have more funds to buy transformers, install meters and enhance our services.”  