Sterling & Wilson, an Indian’s multinational company and 2nd largest supplier of Generating Sets has officially opened its power solutions showroom and office complex in Lagos. This is coming barely a year after the visit of Indian Vice President, M. Hamid Ansari to Nigeria with a 22 man business delegation when they proposed injection of a 5 billion US dollars investment in the Nigerian economy. According to Sanjay Jadhav, CEO, Sterling & Wilson PowerGen Business India, “We are extremely excited to open our Showroom in the Nigerian market. We realize that the Nigerian power generating market is as robust as that of India where you need scalable tough, reliable, efficient and genuine power generating products. Apart from providing mechanical, electrical and plumbing solutions since 1927, we are India’s leading supplier of GenSets so we are offering our range of products and services designed to meet the growing needs of businesses and consumers for stable power supply including GenSet sales and services, Gas power Project Engineering, Supply and Turnkey Execution along with a complete range of MEP (Mechanical Electrical and Plumbing) solutions with availability of well trained professionals.” Bipin Moye, Head, PowerGen Business for West Africa noted that; “Our Showroom situated on Sanusi Fafunwa Street in Victoria Island, Lagos is the first power solutions showroom in Nigeria and will display the full range of Sterling Generator branded diesel generators. “It will also offer the opportunity of cutting edge service, repairs and factory warranty management backed by the availability of experienced and well trained technical service staff, making this a great option for power consumers such as construction/project sites facilities managers, manufacturers, schools, businesses offices, and other stakeholders.” Sterling and Wilson generating sets according to Moye, “are built for reliability and designed with compactness and durability in mind and available from 9kVA to 3000 kVA; these new Perkins powered diesel generator sets are built to world-class standards, for high efficiency, low fuel consumption and global emissions compliance and come in a range of options to match your power needs, making the process of choice and installation really simple”, Moye further explained. Moye explained further: “Throughout our company, we have strived to give customers the best possible in generating sets with efficiency, reliability and global emission quality standards in mind. We also have on offer our range of gas power solutions with capacity between 300 KWe to 25 MWe and multiples for large corporate consumers in the manufacturing, healthcare and Oil & Gas market segments.” Sterling and Wilson Nigeria Ltd. is an ambitious inroad into the Nigerian market by Sterling and Wilson pvt India a company which has emerged as India’s leading MEP (Mechanical, Electrical & Plumbing) Services Company which key MEP projects in many multinational corporations and countries including Ford, Perkins, Earnest Tower(FIFC), One Horizon Center, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles, ESIC Hospital, Nokia Siemens, Rustomjee Natraj IT Park, Supreme Tower, Lulu International Mall, Holiday Inn among others. While the company has seen a huge success in MEP projects in India, it has been associated with several prestigious MEP projects internationally such as Golden Jubilee House at Ghana (Presidential seat in Accra ), International Cricket Stadium in Guyana, Constance Moofooshi Resort in Maldives, Sheraton Hotel in Guinea, Hilton Hotel in Sierra Leone, King Abdullah Financial District in Riyadh, Al Kasim University in Riyadh, Barwa Commercial Avenue in Qatar. Sterling and Wilson has now grown to be the world’s largest solar EPC player outside USA and China. It has to its credit more than 1930 MW of best performing solar power plants in various geographies including India, Philippines and South Africa. Currently it is constructing 1177 MW Solar PV plant in Abu Dhabi, the world’s Largest single location plant, and a number of projects in Zambia, Niger and Morocco. It is a powerhouse of more than 4500 qualified engineers, project managers and designers. As the acceleration of growth in the energy sector has increased worldwide, Sterling and Wilson has ventured into the wind and energy storage sectors, covering the entire canvas in the renewable sector. Backed by its robust resources in Engineering, project management and strong global procurement network, the company is fully geared to deliver more than 2000 MW every year. Sterling Wilson Diesel Generators division was established in 2005 and is today India’s 2nd largest supplier of GenSet above 750 KVA and exports contribute over 25% of the Diesel Generating plant business turnover. The company started with the setting up of Asia’s largest Diesel Generating Set plant at Silvassa under the brand name “Sterling Generators.” Sterling & Wilson Pvt.Ltd, established in 1927 and headquartered in Mumbai India is a global power solution provider in diesel, gas and solar power with offices in 16 countries around the world. Sterling & Wilson Nigeria Ltd, actively present in Nigeria since 2011 and has been offering power solutions through its diesel and gas power range of products along with MEP services (Mechanical Electrical and Plumbing). The grand opening which  featured among other things the traditional Indian custom of lighting of the lamp and a presentation of the company global business activities and projects presented hundreds of guests including businesses owners and stakeholders in power generating products an inside look at Sterling and Wilson cutting edge products and portfolio. 