Speaking shortly after bankers’ committee meeting in Lagos, Mrs. Oluwatomi Somefun , Unity Bank Managing Director/CEO said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)came up with N26 billion special funds and disbursement of its for the agricultural sector which would begin at the end of this quarter. Unity Bank Managing Director further disclosed that the funds, first announced in June, was part of the banks’ equity finances targeting agro-based small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) which is different from Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP). “The contribution follows the directives of the CBN to all commercial banks to remit five per cent of their annual after-tax profit in support of a scheme as part of the guidelines for the Operations of the Agricultural/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS). The programme was first approved at the 331st Bank’s Committee meeting, held on February 9th this year. Also at bankers’ committee meeting, Abdullahi Ahmad, CBN Director of Banking Supervision, revealed that due nonchalant attitude of the Nigerian exporters toward a provision in the CBN Foreign Exchange Manual that mandates all exporters to repatriate their proceeds back to the country to support the local currency and the economy.  The manual stipulates that proceeds of oil and non-oil exports are to be repatriated into the export proceeds domiciliary accounts of their exporters’ accounts within 90 days for oil exports and 180 days for non-oil exports. Where this policy is violated, the collecting bank will be liable to a fine of 10 per cent of the Free On Board value of the transaction, including other appropriate penalties as provided in the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act.  Likewise, where the exporter fails to repatriate the proceeds into the domiciliary account within the stipulated period, the exporter will be barred from participating in all the segments of foreign exchange market in Nigeria. Ahmad said many exporters, who benefited from Federal Government’s support scheme, continually failed to comply with this directive. Therefore the defaulters would be barred from other banking services going forward.  The director said the CBN had continued to take strategic steps to ensure that Nigeria exporters’ businesses thrived and that not sending earned dollar back to the economy was not proper. 