Members of the Senate have donated 1,280 bags of rice as of Wednesday to Kogi State Government’s workers whose salaries have not been paid for some months now. This was made know by the senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye, at a press briefing on Wednesday. Melaye said he was spearheading donation of relief materials to Kogi workers over unpaid salaries. Melaye said, “Today, I drew the attention of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the plight of civil servants in my native Kogi State following the recent disturbing reports of deaths by suicide and inability to pay medical bills by some workers. “I’m happy to report to you that my colleagues in the Senate have immediately responded by donating bags of rice and other essential items to the workers in order to cushion the biting effects of non-payment of their salaries by the Kogi State Government. “The donation, which amounted to 1,280 bags of rice as of today (Wednesday), and others that will follow later, will be handed over to the Kogi State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress for onward distribution to the most vulnerable workers who need immediate assistance.” The lawmaker also provided details of personal donations by each senator. Senator Atai Aidoko (PDP, Kogi-East) donated 70 bags, while senators Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe-Central); Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP, Delta-North); Ibrahim Gobir (APC, Sokoto-East); and Buruji Kashamu (PDP, Ogun-East) donated 50 bags each. Senator Isah Shuaib Lau (APC, Taraba-North) donated 40 bags of rice, while senators Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe-North); Ahmed Ogembe (PDP, Kogi-Central); Usman Nafada (APC, Gombe-North);  Rafiu Ibrahim (APC, Kwara-South); and Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra-North) gave 30 bags each, with Philip Aduda (PDP, FCT) adding 10 bags of fertiliser. Those who donated 20 bags include senators Tayo Alasoadura (APC, Ondo-Central); Umaru Kurfi (APC, Katsina-Central); Tijani Kaura (APC, Zamfara-North); Sam Anyanwu (PDP, Imo-East); Rose Oko (PDP, Cross River-North); Obinna Ogba (PDP, Ebonyi-Central); Bala Ibn N’Allah, (APC, Kebbi-South); Jeremiah Useni (PDP, Plateau-South); Baba Kaka Garbai (APC, Borno-Central); Ali Wakili (APC, Bauchi-South); Sha’aba Lafiagi (APC, Kwara-North); Francis Alimikhena (APC, Edo-North); Abdullahi Gumel (APC, Jigawa North-West); and Mathew Urhoghide (PDP, Edo-South).