 President Muhammadu Buhari has forwarded the name of Mrs Aishah Ahmad to the Senate for confirmation as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN. Mrs Ahmad is expected to replace former CBN Deputy Governor, who retired early in the year. According to statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the president presented Mrs Ahmad’s name to the senate in accordance with the provisions of “Section 8(1) (2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act 2007.” The statement quoted the President as urging the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, “To consider the expeditious confirmation of Mrs Ahmad, who would then resume work immediately.” Also Buhari has written to the Senate, seeking the confirmation of the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Committee of the CBN. The statement said they are to replace “four members, whose tenure expires at the end of this year.” Those nominated include: Professor Adeola Festus Adenikinju; Dr Aliyu Rafindadi Sanusi; Dr Robert Chikwendu Asogwa and Dr Asheikh A. Maidugu. “After Senate clearance, the new members of the Monetary Policy Committee are to resume duties next January,” the statement added. Until her appointment, Aishah Ahmad was the head, Consumer Banking Division at Diamond Bank, responsible for strategic retail products and customer segments including consumer banking, private wealth management, direct sales agent network with a customer base of over 5 million. Her professional experience spans 20 years and includes global financial institutions such as Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC -a member of Standard Bank Group, where she was responsible for Standard Bank’s private wealth business in West Africa, Bank of New York Mellon (UK), Zenith Bank PLC and NAL Bank PLC. A member of the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst (CAIA) Associations – both globally recognized programs for investment analysts and portfolio managers, Aishah holds a M.Sc. in Finance and Management from the Cranfield School of Management in the United Kingdom, an MBA with a specialization in Finance from the University of Lagos, Nigeria and a graduate degree in Accounting from the University of Abuja, Nigeria. .