………200 students from University of Lagos to undergo 6-days of coaching with international trainers organized by Lufthansa Group and Help Alliance  Lufthansa is bringing its internationally acclaimed Corporate Social Responsibility project to Nigeria. ‘Impact Week 2017’ will be held at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) campus in Akoka from October 20th to 26th.  Impact Week is a one-week program aimed at training participants to develop sustainable business models using different innovation techniques like the innovative ‘Design Thinking’.  “We are excited to have a team of UNILAG professionals, Lufthansa international staff and other experts come together with around 200 students to develop their skills, broaden and take on the tasks of thinking about solutions for socio-economic challenges right here”, says Robin Sohdi, Lufthansa General Manager Nigeria.  Dr. Sunday Adebisi, Director Entrepreneurship Centre, UNILAG: „It is exciting to have the Impact Week in Nigeria and more importantly in university of Lagos to support a life changing experience for our teachers and students by Lufthansa Germany Airlines.”  The Impact Week is aimed at coaches and students who generally have great untapped ideas, creative energy and an eagerness to learn and improve things. This six-day event will help participants find, test and develop business ideas with great innovation. It will further prepare and motivate students to engage in entrepreneurship and give them platform to start their own business and find their role in the society. The focus is on seven core sectors (tracks) which affect daily life in Nigeria:  The University of Lagos was chosen  based on its high rating amidst higher institutions in Nigeria and its central location in Yaba, the “Silicon Valley” of Nigeria, which provides proximity to talented students in Lagos.  UNILAG is responsible for the selection of participating students from a variety of faculties. The course will also empower UNILAG lecturers. The goal is that the Impact Week will make it into the regular UNILAG curriculum and even spread nationwide. The sustainability target is to handover the project completely to UNILAG at a later stage.