 23 Insurance and pension operators as well as two regulators were rewarded at the 2017  National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents(NAIPCO) with Award for their outstanding performance in their respective sectors. For instance, at the 2nd NAIPCO National Conference, which took place in Lagos yesterday, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), National Pension Commission (PenCom) and Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate(PTAD) were given recognition Awards for discharging their duties creditably well, while the Recognition Award for the Best Insurance and Pension Consumer of the year went to Lagos State Government. Prof. Joe Irukwu, Fola Daniel and Lady Prisca Soares won Awards for legendary contributions to the growth of insurance Industry, even as Pioneer Director General of PenCom, Muhammad Ahmad was awarded for his legendary contributions to the growth of pension industry. Recognition Award for the Best Insurance Company of the Year went to Leadway Assurance Company Limited even as Recognition Award for the Most innovative and Creative Insurance Company went to Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc. While Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited got the Best Pension Fund Administrator the year award, its Managing Director, Eric Fajemisin, won the Pension CEO of the year award. Recognition award for the Fastest Growing Pension Fund Administrator went to IEI-Anchor Pension Managers Limited, with Recognition Award for the Insurance CEO of the year going to the Managing Director, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Oye Hassan–Odukale, even as the Most Media friendly Insurance Company award went to Niger Insurance​ Plc. Moreover, FBN Insurance Company Ltd won the Fastest Growing Insurance Company Award , while Boff and Co Insurance Brokers won the Most Media friendly Insurance Broker award, with FBN Insurance Brokers Limited winning the Best Insurance Broker of the year award. NEM Insurance Plc got Recognition award for its Iaudable Investment in Infrastructural development, while Custodian and Allied Plc won Insurance Consolidation of the Decade Award. Recognition award for invaluable investment in the Insurance and pension sectors went to Chief Dele Fajemirokun even as recognition award for Insurance Agent of the year went to Asekunowo Sola Helen of Leadway Assurance Company. Speaking on the awards, NAIPCO President, Mrs. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, said the awardees were chosen after rigorous research and investigation into the financial performance and regulatory compliance of the benefiting companies. Their performance in terms of balance sheet size, Premium income, Return on Investment, Pension Assets Under Management( for pension fund operators, clientele base and profitability, Tolu-Kusimo said, were taken into consideration when choosing the winners. The individuals awarded, she added, have contributed to the growth and development of the sectors they play in through investment and advocacy. She equally implored other companies to improve their services to be among the winners next year, urging the awardees not to rest on their oars, but to performance better than what they did in the current year. The more viable companies we have in both insurance and pension sectors, the better for the economy, as the two sectors will contribute more to the Gross Domestic Product(GDP) of the country, NAIPCO said.