   The National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents in a few day gathering eagles of experts and experienced insurance and Pension operators including the Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari and the Acting Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Uma  Kari is expected to address the forum on the level of regulatory compliance of the insurance operators as well as policies of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) aimed at increasing insurance penetration and acceptance in the country.  The Acting Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar and the Executive Secretary, Pension Transitional and Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor, will also deliver keynote address, while the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, will be the Guest Speaker.  Investor and Industrialist, Chief Dele Fajemirokun, will chair the occasion, while the  Iyaloja of Lagos, Mrs. Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, will lead the delegation of market women and traders in Lagos State to grace the occasion NAIPCO disclosed they will honour no fewer than 21 outstanding companies and individuals in insurance and pension sectors will get awards at the upcoming 2017 Conference of the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO).  The conference billed to hold on 25th of October, 2017, at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, will be a gathering of stakeholders from the two sectors as well as their customers.  The shortlisted awardees were chosen after rigorous research and investigation into their financial performance and regulatory compliance.  According to the Association, performance in terms of balance sheet size, premium income, return on investment, pension assets under management (for pension fund operators, client base and profitability were equally crucial factors considered to determine award recipients.  Also, they were examined on how impactful and innovative their products are, sizing the opinion of their respective customers who patronise their products.  On individual awards, the awardees must have contributed to the growth and development of the sectors they play in through investment or advocacy.  The qualified companies and individuals are expected to be unveiled at the conference.  The 3-in-1 event, designed to discuss burning issues bothering on the two sectors, will also accommodate the launch of the Association’s Quarterly Journal, NAIPCO Trumpet and Awards for deserving legendaries and operators in the insurance and pension sectors.  NAIPCO President, Mrs. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, said the association was extra careful in choosing companies and individuals to be awarded, using the aforementioned parameters, to ensure that those awarded qualify for it.  “As an association, we have been distancing ourselves from issuing awards because of the ways awards are politicised these days. But we believe the public will believe us the more if we award  company A for its outstanding performance, using credible criteria.  “This is because this is a sector most of our members have been reporting for decades and have critical knowledge of how each firm operates.”  She stated that the motive behind organising the conference was to find a way of increasing insurance and pension awareness in the country as well as developing the sectors to increase consumer value and contribution to economy.  According to the planned of event, the NAIPCO Journal, will also be launched aimed at increasing insurance and pension awareness, adoption and penetration in the country.